[Music]
turning to old traditions as a means of
survival in the midst of war and famine
these young men are crafting a Lifeline
to counter Israel's
blockade we started making clay ovens
two months after the War Began it was
seen as an opportunity to make a living
and also to provide people with a means
to bake as there is no electricity or
gas people can use these ovens for
cooking and there's been a very high
demand traditional clay ovens have been
a part of Palestinian Heritage for
Generations but haven't been used on
this scale for a very long
time I learned this craft from my father
he wanted to be here with us today but
couldn't my father used to work with my
uncle when he was 16 years old they
stopped for a long time when gas and
electricity became widely available but
when the war returned we went back to
this
[Music]
craft from 6:00 a.m. until the end of
each day this group is hard at work
using a bucket to mold a round base with
cement and pouring straw and Clay over
the top then leaving it to solidify in
the hot
sun this craft has saved people a lot
because there's no electricity it helps
them cook and bake or even grill food if
anything this has saved people a lot of
trouble the effects of the ongoing Fuel
and electricity shortage are more more
Apparent at night rescue crews are
forced to use cell phone lights to
search the rubble for victims but for
families it means modern cooking
facilities don't work increasingly
they're relying on clay ovens and
firewood of course it is tiring and
consumes a lot of firewood and even
firewood is scarce but what else can we
do there are no Alternatives we try to
adapt to the situation even if we go
back to using clay ovens we are
resilient people and thank God we try to
adapt to the situation no matter
what adapting to circumstances has
become a daily reality as people
increasingly struggle to find food water
and medicine with few options left
Resurgence of this family craft is
helping to feed Palestinians or
desperate for an end to their suffering
bad mahichi Al
jaaz make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer